JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
pontifical politics.
Pope Francis sparks a firestorm,
calling Donald
Trump's immigration ideas not
Christian, as
the Republican front-runner
fires back.
Also ahead, President Obama
announces an historic
trip to Cuba next month, the
first for a sitting
president in almost 90 years.
Then: why you should look to the
political
betting markets for presidential
predictions.
NATALIE JACKSON, The Huffington
Post: Polls
show what people are thinking
now, whereas
the prediction markets are what
people think
will happen in the future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It may be
unprecedented, and
it lit up the presidential
campaign today.
A sitting pope crossed verbal
swords with
a candidate for president of the
United States,
just ahead of a crucial primary.
Our political director, Lisa
Desjardins, has
our report.
LISA DESJARDINS: No, this is not
your typical
presidential critic, definitely
not your typical
criticism.
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through
translator): A person who thinks
only about
building walls, wherever they
may be, and
not of building bridges, is not
Christian.
This is not the Gospel.
LISA DESJARDINS: On his flight
home from Mexico,
Pope Francis directly addressed
Donald Trump.
The Republican front-runner has
advocated
building a wall along the length
of the U.S.-Mexican
border. And last week, he said
the pope's
trip to that border was a
political ploy encouraged
by Mexico.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): And am
I a pawn? Well, maybe. I will
leave that to
your judgment.
LISA DESJARDINS: The pope
pointedly told reporters
he is not recommending how
anyone votes.
In South Carolina, the candidate
wasted no
time in issuing his retort.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
No leader, especially a
religious leader,
should have the right to
question another
man's religion or faith,
especially when they
feed all sorts of false
information into him.
LISA DESJARDINS: Trump quickly
transformed
the debate over Christian values
into a fight
over security.
DONALD TRUMP: If and when the
Vatican is attacked
by ISIS, which, as everyone
knows, is ISIS'
ultimate trophy, I can promise
you that the
pope would have only wished and
prayed that
Donald Trump would have been
president, because...
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: It's true. It's
true, because
this would not have happened.
ISIS would have
been eradicated, unlike what is
happening
now with our all-talk, no-action
politicians.
LISA DESJARDINS: While the
would-be president
took on the pontiff, Marco Rubio
happily joined
forces with South Carolina
Governor Nikki
Haley one day after her
endorsement.
GOV. NIKKI HALEY (R), South
Carolina: We need
to show that South Carolina
makes presidents
and that our next president will
be Marco
Rubio.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: Two days before
South Carolina's
primary, most non-Trump
Republicans are playing
it safe and sticking to stump
lines. But in
Greenville last night, Rubio
confronted the
volatile issue of racism by
police and the
criminal justice system.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
But whether you agree with them
or not, if
a significant percentage of the
American family
believes that they are being
treated differently
than everyone else, we have a
problem. And
we have to address it as a
society and as
a country, because I do not
believe we can
fulfill our potential as a
nation unless we
address that.
LISA DESJARDINS: As for the
Democrats:
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I'm going to do everything I can
so you don't
have to be scared.
LISA DESJARDINS: In a new ad,
Hillary Clinton
sought to reach Latino voters in
Nevada by
stressing her opposition to most
deportations.
Bernie Sanders also was
appealing to Latinos,
with this ad highlighting a key
endorsement
before the state's Democratic
caucuses on
Saturday. The two, who are
currently neck
and neck in the
first-in-the-West contest,
will take voter questions at a
town hall event
tonight in Las Vegas.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The pope also
made headlines
today on the Zika virus,
suggesting that women
threatened with it could use
artificial contraception.
Roman Catholic doctrine teaches
birth control
is wrong, but Francis said,
under the circumstances,
it might be necessary.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): Avoiding
a pregnancy is not an absolute
evil. In certain
cases, as in this one, it is
clear. I would
also exhort the doctors that
they do everything
they can to find vaccines and
things against
these mosquitoes that bring
sickness.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will take a
closer look
at all the pope's statements
today after the
news summary.
The Pentagon said today it has
asked Russia
to steer clear of bombing near
U.S. special
forces in Northern Syria. It
said the Russian
military was given broad areas
to avoid, but
not the exact locations of
American troops.
And a spokesman said the
Russians have honored
the request so far.
Turkey is blaming Kurdish
militants at home
and in Syria for a suicide
bombing in Ankara.
Yesterday's blast killed 28
people and wounded
dozens more. The Turks answered
today with
air raids in Northern Iraq on
the outlawed
Kurdish rebel group PKK, and
they insisted
again the group is linked to
Syrian Kurds
backed by the U.S.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through
translator): We have not been
able to convince
the international community, and
in particular
our friends, of the strong ties
between Kurdish
militias in Northern Syria and
the PKK. In
the face of this bombing, they
will probably
be conducive to a better
understanding.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, the
leader of a
Kurdish umbrella organization
said it's possible
that rogue militants carried out
the bombing.
In Uganda, delays and protests
plagued presidential
and parliamentary elections
today. And, at
one point, the main opposition
candidate was
briefly arrested. Some voters
waited more
than five hours because ballots
had not been
delivered. That sent protesters
into the streets
claiming the delays were
deliberate to help
keep the country's president in
office. Yoweri
Museveni has been in power for
30 years and
is seeking reelection.
Leaders of the European Union
have opened
a crucial summit in Brussels
that could determine
whether Britain stays or goes as
a member.
Prime minister David Cameron
arrived today,
calling for a deal that
safeguards British
sovereignty, and helps him win a
summer referendum
on keeping London in the E.U.
DAVID CAMERON, British Prime
Minister: We
have got some important work to
do today and
tomorrow. And it's going to be
hard. I will
be battling for Britain. If we
can get a good
deal, I will take that deal. But
I will not
take a deal that doesn't meet
what we need.
I think it's much more important
to get this
right than to do anything in a
rush.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Britain already
opts out of
the unified euro currency and it
wants the
freedom to curb various benefits
for immigrants
from elsewhere in Europe.
Back in this country, a Los
Angeles area hospital
confirms that it paid $17,000 in
ransom to
hackers who seized control of
its computer
network. Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center
says it happened earlier this
month. It regained
access to its network by paying
the ransom
in Bitcoins, an online currency.
The FBI said
there have been numerous similar
attacks.
And Wall Street's rally ran out
of gas today,
after advancing since Monday.
The Dow Jones
industrial average lost 40
points to close
at 16413. The Nasdaq fell 46
points, and the
S&P 500 shed nine.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Pope Francis'
surprising remarks on
contraceptives and on
Donald Trump; the first
presidential visit
to Cuba in nearly 90 years;
who's taking bets
on the presidential election;
and much more.
Now back to that rare exchange
we saw play
out today between the pope and
presidential
candidate Donald Trump.
John Allen covers the Vatican
and the Catholic
Church for The Boston Globe and
its Web site,
Crux. And Susan Page is the
Washington bureau
chief for USA Today.
And welcome to you both.
Susan, to you first, what did
you make of
the pope's remarks? And is there
any precedent
for a pope injecting himself
this way into
a presidential race?
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau
Chief, USA Today:
I have covered 10 campaigns. I
have never
seen anything like this, the
pope talking
very specifically about a
particularly candidate,
criticizing him, saying he's
behaving in a
way that's not Christian.
I have never seen anything like
it, and the
candidate immediately shooting
back with very
harsh language, saying the
pope's language
was disgraceful. I think this is
truly uncharted
waters here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John Allen, you
have covered
the Vatican for many years. Are
you aware
of any precedent? Has there been
a situation
like this where the pope has
spoken to directly
about an American election?
JOHN ALLEN, Associate Editor,
The Boston Globe:
Well, Judy, I have covered the
Vatican for
about 20 years, covered three
popes.
I am keenly aware that this is
an institution
that has an awful lot of history
under its
belt, so I am very reluctant to
use the word
unprecedented. As the late
Cardinal Francis
George of Chicago once artfully
put it, in
the Catholic Church, everything
has happened
at least once.
But I'm not sure this has ever
happened before.
I have certainly covered
tensions between
sitting presidents and popes.
There were titanic
battles between the Clinton
administration
and the Vatican over
reproductive freedom
in the 1990s.
Pope John Paul II, now St. John
Paul, was
very critical of President
Bush's invasion
of Iraq. We saw tensions between
Pope Benedict
and the Obama administration
over the contraception
mandates imposed by the White
House as part
of health care reform.
But for a pope to go after not a
president,
but a presidential candidate, by
name, in
quite so incendiary a fashion,
no, I don't
think we have seen this before.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, John Allen,
staying with
you, how did you read it,
though? Because
it's not just Donald Trump.
There are a number
of Republicans who have said
there should
be a wall, a big wall along the
border with
Mexico. How did you read the
pope just addressing
Trump?
JOHN ALLEN: Well, look, Judy, if
you read
the full transcript of the
pope's remarks,
it is very clear that the pope
does not in
any level of detail actually
know who Donald
Trump is.
He said -- the question was put
to him by
one of our colleagues, Phil
Pullella from
the Reuters news agency, about
Trump. And
the pope's response basically
was, well, listen,
assuming Trump has said what you
say he said,
and he said that all has to be
verified, I'm
giving you the benefit of the
doubt, but,
assuming that, it is not a
Christian attitude.
So, I think, basically, the
pope's point was
that someone who wants to build
walls, rather
than bridges, who wants to try
to separate
themselves from people in need,
rather than
opening their hearts to them and
trying to
be of assistance to them, that
that is not
a Christian attitude in keeping
with the Christian
Gospel.
What makes this particularly
saucy is that
he said that in the context of
Donald Trump
and thereby, perhaps not
deliberately, but
thereby injecting himself into
the 2016 campaign
in the United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Susan, what is
the effect likely
to be on Donald Trump? Could it
hurt him?
Could it help him?
SUSAN PAGE: I think we have all
learned not
to predict that things are
catastrophic for
Donald Trump...
JUDY WOODRUFF: For sure.
SUSAN PAGE: ... because he's
said one outrageous
thing after another, and it's
not really hurt
him.
I actually think this could help
in the short-term.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Really?
SUSAN PAGE: For one, he's doing
totally what
he always does. Right? You hit
him, he hits
you back, even if you're the
pope.
He's also talking about an issue
that launched
his presidential campaign, which
is immigration,
building a wall, stopping the
flow of illegal
immigrants from Mexico and
elsewhere. So,
in that way, it's helpful.
I think it could be harmful to
him in a general
election against Hillary Clinton
or a Democrat
who is making big inroads among
Hispanic voters,
help her with Catholics.
Catholics are one
of the most crucial swing votes
that we have
in a general election. But when
you talk about
the Republican nomination, I'm
not sure this
hurts him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And as -- and I
was just discussing
with John Allen, the pope is
really taking
on the entire Republican Party,
in a way,
because their position is, we
need to shore
up the border and stop Mexican
and other Central
American, South American
immigrants from coming
into the U.S.
SUSAN PAGE: And that's one
reason that his
Republican rivals will not be
able to go against
Trump on this issue, and in fact
chose not
to today, because when Jeb Bush,
for instance,
who is himself Catholic, or John
Kasich or
Marco Rubio were asked about
this today, they
all reiterated the importance of
a secure
border and none of them really
went after
Trump on this issue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John Allen,
the pope made
more news today -- it was not
just on Donald
Trump -- when he said it may be
acceptable
for women who are dealing with
the potential
Zika virus, the mosquito bite
that could lead
to the Zika virus, for them to
use artificial
contraception.
How significant that he said
that? This is
not church doctrine, we know.
JOHN ALLEN: Well, Judy, I think
it's actually
potentially far more
consequential than his
comments on Donald Trump,
because let's face
it, Pope Francis himself is not
in a position
to directly control the outcome
of the 2016
election in the United States,
but he can
control what the Catholic Church
does and
doesn't approve.
Now, in this case, what the pope
was taking
was a fairly traditional
position, actually.
He actually cited a precedent
from the early
1960s, when then Pope Paul VI
allowed Catholic
nuns in what was then the
Belgian Congo to
take contraception because they
were in a
situation with widespread sexual
violence,
and they were trying to protect
themselves
from pregnancy as the result of
rape.
And, basically, the Vatican's
position was,
OK, this is not an issue of
using birth control
to try to prevent the
transmission of new
life. It is trying to prevent an
unjust harm.
By a similar logic, the Vatican
has for years
taken the position that in the
context of
Africa, in the context of
HIV/AIDS, where
you have a married couple where
one couple
-- is HIV-positive and the other
is not, and
they wish to use contraception
to try to prevent
the other partner from being
infected, the
Vatican has consistently
described that as
an open question to which there
is no definitive
church dogma.
And that is essentially what
Francis said
again today in the context of
the Zika virus.
Now, we should be careful in
saying, Judy,
he didn't directly say, I
therefore approve
the use of contraception to try
to prevent
infection with Zika, but he
clearly left the
door open to that, which is
going to encourage
pastors and moral theologians
and church officials
to continue to debate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just quickly,
John Allen, is
that likely to be controversial
inside the
church?
JOHN ALLEN: Judy, pretty much
everything is
likely to be controversial
inside the church.
(LAUGHTER)
JOHN ALLEN: So, yes, I think
there will be
a healthy debate. Some will say
this is exactly
the wrong time to be weakening
our position
on birth control. Others will
say that this
is a kind of commonsense
adaptation that they
welcome.
I think there is going to be a
robust conversation
about it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John Allen, Susan
Page, another
extraordinary day in American
politics and
in covering religion around the
world. Thank
you both.
SUSAN PAGE: Thank you.
JOHN ALLEN: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On March 21,
President Obama
will make Cuba the first stop on
a trip to
Latin America. It will be an
historic moment
that comes 14 months after Cuba
and the United
States announced renewed
diplomatic ties.
Our chief foreign affairs
correspondent, Margaret
Warner, begins our coverage.
MARGARET WARNER: It will be the
first visit
to Cuba by a sitting American
president since
Calvin Coolidge in 1928.
President Obama announced
the plans on his official
Twitter feed today.
And Deputy National Security
Adviser Ben Rhodes
outlined the goals.
BEN RHODES, U.S. Deputy National
Security
Adviser: We see it as a means of
pushing forward
this normalization process,
trying to achieve
a greater opening between the
United States
and Cuba commercially, but also
supporting
and advancing the values that we
care about.
MARGARET WARNER: The visit,
including talks
with Cuban leader Raul Castro,
follows more
than a year of work to thaw
relations. Embassies
reopened in both countries, and
the two nations
this week agreed to start daily
commercial
flights.
But these moves toward
normalization haven't
produced results as quickly as
hoped. Commerce
Secretary Penny Pritzker,
meeting Cuba's trade
minister in Washington this
week, complained
that, despite Washington easing
restrictions
on U.S. companies wanting to do
business there,
Havana hasn't done the same.
Rhodes echoed that today.
BEN RHODES: What we would like
to see is that
they are taking the types of
steps that allow
those regulatory changes to take
hold, that
allow U.S. businesses to start
to be able
to operate in Cuba in ways that
benefit the
Cuban people.
MARGARET WARNER: Cuba argues the
U.S. is to
blame for lack of progress, as a
top Cuban
official underscored today.
JOSEFINA VIDAL, Cuban Foreign
Ministry (through
translator): Of course, to
achieve fully reestablishment
of those bilateral relations,
outstanding
issues would have to be
resolved, including
the lift of the embargo and the
return to
Cuba of the territory occupied
by a Naval
base in Guantanamo.
MARGARET WARNER: Congress is
refusing to lift
the trade embargo and the White
House said
today the U.S. position on
retaining Guantanamo
has not changed.
Human rights also remains a
point of contention.
Rhodes said today that Mr. Obama
will meet
with civil society activists
during his visit.
But leading Republicans urged
him not to go
at all.
Presidential candidate Marco
Rubio, son of
Cuban immigrants, spoke in a CNN
town hall
last night.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
There's no elections in Cuba.
There's no choice
in Cuba. And so my whole
problem, I want the
relationship between the U.S.
and Cuba to
change, but it has to be
reciprocal. And so,
today, a year and two months
after the opening
of Cuba, the Cuba government
remains as repressive
as ever.
MARGARET WARNER: Even so, the
White House
said lawmakers from both parties
will accompany
the president.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We explore the
historical significance
now with William LeoGrande. He's
a specialist
in Latin America at American
University. He's
written a number of books on
U.S.-Cuban relations.
And welcome back to the
"NewsHour," Bill LeoGrande.
Good to see you.
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE, American
University: Thank
you. Good to be with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How big a deal is
this visit
by the president next month?
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: Well, I think
it's historic.
And I think, as we look back on
it, we will
see that it's as significant as
Richard Nixon's
1972 trip to China, which was
really the symbolic
break in the old policy and a
policy -- a
new policy of engagement with
China.
In the same way, this trip by
President Obama
is symbolic of the fundamental
shift that
he made in U.S.-Cuba policy back
in December
2014.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, what real
changes do
you see? We know, as Margaret
just reported,
that the embargo, the trade
embargo still
exists. There is, what, any sign
Congress
is ready to look at that again?
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: Well, not
this year, because
we're in the middle of an
election year, but
next year, I think there is a
real opportunity
to revisit it.
There are a lot of Republicans
who are pro-business
and whose constituents would
like to be able
to gain access to the Cuban
market. And I
think that -- and there are a
lot of Democrats,
of course, who have been in
favor of a new
policy toward Cuba for a long
time. And I
think there is the makings of a
coalition
once we get past the election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, in the
meantime, what do
we look for as changes in the
U.S.-Cuba relationship?
We know the president's tried to
do a few
things. Are they making any
difference?
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: Well, I think
they are.
We have already seen agreements
on a whole
range of issues of mutual
interest, civil
aviation, the restoration of
postal service,
environmental protection. I
think we will
see more agreements in the next
11 months
on other issues of mutual
agreement, particularly
in the law enforcement area.
And we're also seeing a lot of
new commercial
interests and a lot of
businesses going down
there, trying to see if Cuba
offers a real
opportunity for business.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as I
understand it, it's
still a narrow slice here and a
narrow slice
there.
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: The embargo
is still really
important.
And until the embargo is gone,
we're going
to be playing at the margins, if
you will.
But, nevertheless, the
regulatory changes
the president has made in the
last year have
really opened up a number of
business opportunities.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, we just
heard Senator
Marco Rubio say, we're talking
about an oppressive
government.
How much change, if any, has
there been in
Cuba's human rights record?
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: There's been
very little
change on the human rights
front. And the
Cuban government is no more
tolerant of dissidents
today than it was a year ago.
But the problem with that
criticism, it seems
to me, is that, for 54 years, we
pursued a
policy of hostility and coercion
to try to
force Cuba to behave better and
become more
democratic, and it didn't work.
So, it seems
to me that the president
deserves at least
more than a year to try to see
if his policy
will make a difference.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You started out
comparing this
to Nixon's visit to China. What
do you see?
I mean, what do you think the
U.S.-Cuba relationship
could like five, 10 years from
now?
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: Oh, I -- Cuba
and the United
States are really natural
partners. If we
go back historically, Cuba and
the United
States had a very close,
integrated cultural
relationship, an economic
relationship.
The problem from the Cuban side
was that the
United States dominated the
island politically.
But if we can engage at the
political level
with mutual respect, respecting
Cuba's independence,
there are all kinds of
opportunities for cultural
exchange and economic
development.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And this is
despite the fact
that the Cuban leadership is
still very critical
of the United States in many
ways.
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: They are very
critical
of the United States, but they
tend now to
be more critical of specific
U.S. policies,
like the embargo and our
presence in Guantanamo,
as opposed to the
across-the-board denunciation
of the United States that we
used to hear
a few years ago.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Professor William
LeoGrande
of American University, we thank
you.
WILLIAM LEOGRANDE: My pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
righting the
wrongs of the civil rights era;
the complex
and controversial sourcing
network behind
the Web site TMZ; plus, Peyton
Manning's alleged
sexual assault.
But, first, a different take on
predicting
the outcomes of presidential
races.
Our economics correspondent,
Paul Solman,
looks at how a kind of betting
market has
fared in recent years when it
comes to forecasting
winners. It's part of his weekly
series, Making
Sense, every Thursday on the
"NewsHour."
PAUL SOLMAN: And they're off.
The candidates
are out of the gate, around the
first turn
and at full gallop in America's
quadrennial
race to elect a president.
But, as at the track, one
question overshadows
all others: Who's going to win?
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Sixty percent.
PAUL SOLMAN: Like every other
candidate, if
somewhat more loudly, Donald
Trump keeps pointing
to the polls.
DONALD TRUMP: Here's an
important one, best
chance of winning in November.
Trump, number
one, 47 percent.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
PAUL SOLMAN: But when it comes
to presidential
prognostication, what source is
your best
bet? A poll? A pundit? A
real-time trending
Google search? Turns out it's
none of the
above.
DAVID ROTHSCHILD, Microsoft
Research: I think
that the markets have really
been ahead of
the polling and ahead of the
pundits.
PAUL SOLMAN: Because, says David
Rothschild,
who studies them, political
prediction markets
incorporate all available
information.
DAVID ROTHSCHILD: This is where
markets have
a huge advantage over the
smartest people
just dealing with polling or
historical data.
We looked at the 2012 elections.
We looked
at all the primaries. We looked
at all the
senatorial, gubernatorial,
presidential elections.
And you see something that is
more accurate
than any collection of pundits
or statistical
polling averages, and extremely
well-calibrated.
NATALIE JACKSON, The Huffington
Post: Polls
show what people are thinking
now, whereas
the prediction markets are what
people think
will happen in the future.
PAUL SOLMAN: Moreover, says
Natalie Jackson,
senior polling editor for The
Huffington Post,
technology has made polling more
dicey.
NATALIE JACKSON: We're seeing a
huge drop-off
in landline telephones, which
was pollsters'
bread and butter for a long
time.
PAUL SOLMAN: John Phillips heads
a nonpartisan
political technology company
called Aristotle.
His firm built and operates
PredictIt, one
of just two places Americans can
legally bet
on or, Phillips would prefer I
say, invest
in political predictions, though
no more than
$850.
Still, as at the race track or
stock market,
you're putting your money where
your mouth
is.
JOHN PHILLIPS, CEO, Aristotle:
And that's
the beauty of putting just a
little bit of
money on it. It all of a sudden
becomes a
matter of pride, but it also
becomes a matter
of focus. You want to see how
your investment's
doing.
PAUL SOLMAN: Phillips gave me a
tutorial on
how PredictIt works. I'm a guy
who loves to
play long shots. My father
worked at the racetrack
for many years when I was a kid.
So, I would
go with John Kasich at 2 cents.
All he has
to do is go up to 4 cents, and I
have doubled
my money, right?
JOHN PHILLIPS: Well, yes, if he
goes up to
4 cents or...
PAUL SOLMAN: So, what the heck?
I bought 25
shares.
JOHN PHILLIPS: Here you got --
here's your
50 cents up here. You are now
the proud owner.
PAUL SOLMAN: Of John Kasich at 2
cents to
win the Nevada primary, that is.
In addition to the thrill of
victory, the
agony of defeat, and the chance
to make money,
PredictIt provides a passel of
information
about the race.
JOHN PHILLIPS: Now, there are 84
comments
on this particular market right
now.
PAUL SOLMAN: Oh, look, Clinton
36 cents.
This was the Democratic primary
market in
Colorado.
So, the market has suddenly
collapsed. So
I think I will go with that. And
now, if I
want to buy Bernie Sanders in
another market,
to level the playing field, and
so Oklahoma,
Sanders is down to 22 cents in
Oklahoma, so
I'm going to buy Sanders. Offer
matched. Close.
I'm in.
So, I'm rooting for Bernie
Sanders in Oklahoma,
Hillary Clinton in Colorado, and
John Kasich
in Nevada.
Other larger online political
markets, like
Ireland's Paddy Power and
Britain's Betfair,
echo the odds on PredictIt and
take as much
as you want to bet. But they're
illegal for
U.S. citizens to play. PredictIt
got government
approval by limiting the amount
to $850 per
market and casting itself as
both an investment
marketplace and academic
research tool, since
it began as a project at New
Zealand's Victoria
University.
JOHN PHILLIPS: We provide the
technology.
Once the data is collected, it's
anonymized,
and then there are research
agreements with
almost two dozen U.S.
universities and Oxford
University.
PAUL SOLMAN: But you're still
betting real
money.
You keep saying investing, but
it is betting,
isn't it?
JOHN PHILLIPS: I see it as a
stock market.
A funny thing happens when
people try to figure
out what is going to happen
tomorrow or a
week down the road. And if I can
put a little
bit of money in the outcome that
I'm expecting,
I think that's a stock market.
PAUL SOLMAN: Can we compromise
on agreeing
that it's gambling?
JOHN PHILLIPS: I think you can
call it anything
you want.
PAUL SOLMAN: But whatever you
call it, says
researcher Rothschild:
DAVID ROTHSCHILD: The people who
are playing
the market are taking the pulse
of the general
population, and they have done
so accurately
for long enough that we can
trust that they're
understanding how things are
impacting very
quickly.
PAUL SOLMAN: But PredictIt chief
John Phillips
says his market provides
something more: a
prod to democratic involvement.
JOHN PHILLIPS: These traders not
only pay
more attention to politics, but
they also
are more likely to vote. Even
though it's
only a $1 winner
take-all-contract with an
$850 limit, it still starts to
cause you to
think about things differently,
and that's
the magic here. It may be that
it is an engagement
tool for the 20-year-olds.
PAUL SOLMAN: Researcher
Rothschild agrees.
DAVID ROTHSCHILD: People will
start paying
attention in a way that they
never did before,
and so they will make an effort
to learn about
politics, to understand
politics, to engage
in politics, in a way that is
very, very beneficial
to our society.
PAUL SOLMAN: My session with
PredictIt's John
Phillips was almost over, but I
couldn't resist
checking in on my
2-cents-a-share Kasich
investment.
Oh, my goodness. Look at that.
It had actually gone down.
Down to 1 cent. This is just 50
cents, so
its impact on my financial
future is minimal.
But I can feel myself rooting
for Kasich to
go up. It's just preposterous,
but, I mean,
I can feel it. I can feel it.
So, what happened? Well, as of
today on PredictIt,
John Kasich has bottomed out in
Nevada, where
Donald Trump is now heavily
favored. In the
Democratic primary in Colorado,
Sanders is
the heavy favorite, and I just
sold Hillary
Clinton at a loss.
But I have done more than OK in
Oklahoma.
Clinton is still favored, but I
sold surging
Sanders at nearly double what I
paid for him.
Bottom line, a $1.33 profit, or
a better than
13 percent return on investment
in less than
a week.
For the "PBS NewsHour" and the
power of markets,
this is economics correspondent
Paul Solman,
wishing the rest of you the best
of luck.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next, another in
our Race Matters
series.
Special correspondent Charlayne
Hunter-Gault
traveled to Montgomery, Alabama,
to speak
with former police Chief Kevin
Murphy about
the solutions he found in trying
to create
a more responsive and
cooperative police force.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: During
the 50th anniversary
of police violence against
peaceful civil
rights marchers in Selma,
Alabama, that ended
in Montgomery, police Chief
Kevin Murphy did
something surprising. He
apologized to Congressman
John Lewis, a frequent victim of
that earlier
violence, and handed him his
badge.
We caught up with Murphy, where
he now works
as Montgomery County deputy
sheriff, and where
some of his solutions are still
in place.
Kevin Murphy, thank you for
joining us.
KEVIN MURPHY, Montgomery County,
Alabama,
Chief Deputy: Thank you for
having me.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What
moved you to
hand John Lewis your badge that
day?
KEVIN MURPHY: Well, as a young
officer, I
had seen Congressman Lewis and
the congressional
delegation Faith and Politics
come to Montgomery
over a several-year period. They
would follow
the civil rights trail and they
would come
and spend time in Montgomery.
And as a young member of the
department, I
would see him and wonder, why
hasn't anyone
ever acknowledged the injustices
that occurred
here and thought, if I ever
become police
chief, I'm going to change that.
And then
the day did arrive when they
were to come
to Montgomery for their annual
tour.
And I didn't tell anybody. I
didn't want it
to be a political act. I wanted
it to be sincere
and heartfelt, and the respect
that I have
for Congressman Lewis is
immeasurable.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Well,
he's told me
he has the same for you.
In your early days as a police
officer, you
asked questions. What kind of
questions did
you ask, and what kind of
responses did you
get?
KEVIN MURPHY: I found that a lot
of the officers
who had really lived through
that era, particularly
the white officers, were very
reluctant and
uncomfortable with talking about
it.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: So, when
you became
chief, what steps did you take
to change what
you saw as the wrongs?
KEVIN MURPHY: One of the first
things that
I implemented as the new police
chief was
enacting a class, creating a
class.
We went way back in history to
the Dred Scott
decision all the way through to
the Emmett
Till case, because I wanted the
officers to
experience what really happened.
You know, what my observation
was is, you
have a 21-year-old officer who
had never lived
through or seen the civil rights
era for what
it was, the dark reality of it.
And so this
young officer would stop an
African-American
citizen and get somewhat of a
pushback, because
maybe this 60- or 75-year-old
African-American
citizen's last encounter with a
Montgomery
police officer was very
negative.
After they attended the class, I
saw a lot
of promise, in that, the next
time they encountered
that citizen, they felt like: I
understand
now.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: And you
put this class
-- you got this class put into
the police
academy's training.
KEVIN MURPHY: I did.
And we actually had all members
of the department,
not just the sworn officers, but
the civilians,
attended as well, and had
tremendous feedback.
The first part of the course is
classroom,
then a tour of the Rosa Parks
Museum.
But my favorite part of the
class was the
conclusion, where there was a
values segment.
And the values segment was
giving scenarios
to the members of the class. It
was strongly
agree, somewhat agree, strongly
disagree,
somewhat disagree.
But I was proud of the answers
and the outcomes
of those scenarios, because they
were learning
from the class that, you know,
you have to
be very careful in the way that
you apply
this power. And, you know, we're
seeing it
in the country now.
And I think that we were
teaching that in
this class, how to de-escalate a
situation
where a citizen was upset
because they thought
that they were going to be
mistreated when
they saw the patch of the
Montgomery Police
Department, and it was the
officer's responsibility
to ensure that citizen that that
wasn't going
to occur.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What do
you think
in that experience is replicable
or has any
kind of application today?
KEVIN MURPHY: I think law
enforcement needs
to get to work.
And I think that one of the
biggest challenges
that we face in this new century
is our response
to what I would call a critical
event, where
you have a citizen who's become
violent, a
citizen who's under the
influence of drugs
or perhaps they are suffering
from some type
of mental health issue.
And what I have seen with a lot
of these encounters
that end very badly, with the
death of an
unarmed citizen, is a fear on
the part of
the officer. And we all
experience it in this
uniform. It's nothing to be
ashamed of, but
you have to be able to manage
that fear. And
I believe, sometimes, when fear
steps in,
poor decisions are made. And I
think that
the use of deadly force falls
into that category.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: So, what
do you do
about it?
KEVIN MURPHY: We need to be able
to teach
the officers, the deputies
coming into this
profession how to manage your
fear. No one
ever did that to us, my
generation.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What do
you think
is the most important thing to
do now to ensure
that everybody, the police are
respected,
as well as those who deserve to
be protected
by the police and even those who
commit crimes?
KEVIN MURPHY: Law enforcement
needs to start
holding themselves accountable.
And you're starting to see it in
some parts
of the country, where officers
are being held
accountable, and there are
consequences for
bad behavior.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: A lot of
the people
who have been victims of
improper police behavior
were innocent, but what do you
do when you
have got criminals? I mean, not
everybody
is innocent.
KEVIN MURPHY: It's not a police
officer's
job to punish. We're there to
enforce the
law and to take people into
custody.
But I think you have seen in
some instances,
and certainly back in the latter
-- early
and the latter parts of the last
century,
that, you know, law enforcement
felt like
it was their role to punish.
And, you know,
it's our responsibility to
apprehend and bring
these people before the courts.
You know, there is no such thing
as street
justice. You have to abide by
the law when
you're wearing the uniform and
set the example.
When you don't do that, you have
lost all
credibility with the public that
you serve.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Well,
Kevin Murphy,
thank you.
KEVIN MURPHY: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now a look at how
the popular
media and gossip site TMZ works,
and how it's
changing that business.
The site is often the leading
destination
of celebrity news and even
notable national
scandal. TMZ obtained the video
of football
running back Ray Rice knocking
his then-fiancee
unconscious in a casino
elevator.
Before that, it released
recordings of racist
remarks made by Donald Sterling,
who was,
at the time, the owner of the
Los Angeles
Clippers.
"The New Yorker" magazine
published an investigation
of TMZ.
And Jeffrey Brown spoke with the
writer, Nicholas
Schmidle, earlier this week.
JEFFREY BROWN: Nicholas
Schmidle, welcome
to you.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE, "The New
Yorker": Thanks.
JEFFREY BROWN: First, how do you
describe
what TMZ is and does?
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Sure.
So, TMZ is a celebrity news
site. It is kind
of -- it's in the same vein as
The National
Enquirer. But what they are
doing is much
more sort of documentary-based
celebrity news
reporting, and in a way...
JEFFREY BROWN: Documentary,
meaning what?
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Meaning
posting Videos,
posting pictures, posting court
documents,
doing stories about celebrity
news and celebrity
gossip that are sort of
unimpeachable.
In the past, a celebrity news
report might
have come out, and a celebrity
might have
been able to say, no, that's not
true and
dismissed it and had publicists
sort of stand
in the way.
TMZ goes to you with the video
and says, this
is what we're running in a few
hours. Do you
have a comment?
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, what you're
also showing,
I mean, on one hand, as you say,
nothing new
in this kind of gossip and
celebrity journalism,
but they have changed the game,
upped the
game, a lot of it, as you have
shown, through
some old-fashioned reporting.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Right.
So, there is. There is a
shoe-leather reporting
aspect to it. They have more --
they have
dedicated more resources to
court reporting.
They have three full-time court
reporters
at the Los Angeles courthouse.
The Los Angeles
Times has one.
They are working -- I mean,
their reporters
work very, very hard. The
difference is, is
that there is not a lot of
enterprise reporting
going on. They're not
identifying a story
they want to going after and
pursuing it.
Most of what they're getting is
coming in
through tips. It's very clear at
the top of
the TMZ Web site how to get
stories in. There
is a tip line. There's an e-mail
and...
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, and hundreds
come in any
given day.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, of course,
the other big
difference is that they pay,
right?
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: They do.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sometimes large
amounts, sometimes
smaller amounts, but that's
always a possibility
for their stories.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Absolutely.
There is a lot of money changing
hands. Over
the -- $40, $50 over the course
of the day
as photographers are paying
sources in the
airport, or paying sources at
hotels, restaurants,
and then bigger payments for the
more -- you
know, for the more desired
videos.
JEFFREY BROWN: Harvey Levin, the
founder of
TMZ, didn't talk to you, right,
for your...
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Correct.
JEFFREY BROWN: But when he has
talked about
this, he sounds unapologetic
about the...
(CROSSTALK)
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Fully. He
says -- the video
is the video, is what he says.
And if we paid
money for the video, so be it.
Paying for information is a
condemned practice
in journalism, because the
notion is that
you are influencing the source
-- you're influencing
why sources are giving you
certain information
if they know they're being paid
for it.
So he's saying that we don't
actually pay
for information. We pay for
product. We pay
for -- you know, we're licensing
product,
and that's what we're paying
for.
JEFFREY BROWN: You know, if they
were just
doing celebrity journalism, I
don't think
you would write about them. I
we would be talking about them.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Absolutely.
JEFFREY BROWN: We're talking
about them because
they have done some
consequential stories,
right, that have had some
impact, whether
it's Ray Rice, in the case of
the NFL story
about a bank getting a bailout
that has -- that
then spent a lot of money on a
party.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Right.
JEFFREY BROWN: Somehow, they
have crossed
over into having some kind of
impact.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Right. Donald
Sterling,
the former Los Angeles Clippers
owner, who...
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: And that was
-- this -- the
idea for the story was conceived
in the aftermath
of the second Ray Rice video
that TMZ posted
in which it showed him knocking
out his then
fiancee.
TMZ was punching -- no pun
intended, but sort
of punching above its weight and
publishing
some -- posting some very
consequential stories,
and...
JEFFREY BROWN: So that the NFL
in that case
had to pay attention.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: And doing it
and finding
video in ways that other media
organizations
weren't.
And so -- and that, I think, was
the reason
that we took this project on.
What is TMZ?
How do they do what they do?
And, you know,
I was just fascinated trying to
sort of figure
out how the operation works.
JEFFREY BROWN: And how much do
you think this
has changed the way that
celebrity journalism
works?
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: I think that
it's changed
the way that celebrities respond
to the journalism
that's being done about them.
I mean, I think that -- I think
that there
is a sense of -- the sense of
immunity that
you, if you are a celebrity, you
can sort
of ensconce yourself in
publicists and managers
and be able to kind of navigate
your way around,
and lawyers, and navigate your
way through
crises.
JEFFREY BROWN: And that's one
thing Harvey
Levin was acting against, right?
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Absolutely.
JEFFREY BROWN: The kind of
bubble of control,
he didn't like that.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Absolutely.
And so it's impossible to do
that. If TMZ
has court documents or if they
have video
footage or audio recordings of
you speaking
to your mistress and making sort
of racist
comments about spectators at
your basketball
games, it's just -- you can't
avoid it. You
can't sidestep it.
JEFFREY BROWN: And the larger
question is
how much, if at all, has it
impacted more
traditional journalism? In other
words, how
much has their success and the
tactics that
they use had a larger influence?
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Yes. No,
that's a great
question.
I think that -- look, people go
to TMZ because
they want to see. They don't
want to hear
about three sources in a hotel
who say, we
saw Ray Rice step into the
elevator. We don't
know what happened next, but we
saw him drag
his wife out. They don't want to
read that.
They want to watch the video.
And so I think
that -- you know, you're right.
It's a good
point that what readers want to
see is the
sort of -- they want to see
documents. They
want to see sort of the raw
footage. And I
think that there probably is a
drift towards
that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let me ask you,
finally, did
you come away wary or mortified
or impressed?
What was your own feeling,
having looked into
it?
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Yes.
I mean, I came away thinking a
note of admiration
for the way that they have wired
Los Angeles.
Now, if there was no money
changing hands
and they had people at Delta and
at these
limo companies and all these
various places
giving information, and their
beat...
JEFFREY BROWN: Because they do,
right? Yes.
Yes.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: And TMZ's --
if TMZ's beat
was to cover celebrity news, and
they had
all this information coming in,
I would -- there
is no way that you couldn't not
tip your hat.
The fact that there is money
changing hands
does sort of bring about a cloud
of controversy
about how they're doing it. But
you have to
hand it to them. They -- what
they do, they
do very well.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
article is "The
Digital Dirt."
Nicholas Schmidle, thanks so
much.
NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE: Thanks for
having me on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As the Super Bowl
came to a
close less than two weeks ago,
quarterback
Peyton Manning seemed to be
heading toward
a storybook ending to his long
career, as
his Denver Broncos won the big
game.
But right around the same time,
old allegations
were raised anew, and with a
much higher profile
this time, about whether Manning
may have
committed a sexual assault
during his college
career.
Manning has long denied it, but
he and his
alma mater, the University of
Tennessee, are
under new scrutiny.
Hari Sreenivasan has more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The allegation
against Manning
is that, in 1996, while a female
associate
trainer was examining his foot
for an injury,
he dropped his shorts and sat on
her head
and face. Manning denied this in
a memoir
he released, saying he was only
mooning a
male athlete, and the trainer
simply was nearby.
But a recent column and
investigation in The
New York Daily News raised this
again. The
article also published court
documents from
a 2003 defamation lawsuit
against Manning.
And Manning is named in a new
lawsuit that
says the University of Tennessee
has fostered
a culture that enables sexual
assaults by
student athletes.
Christine Brennan is a sports
columnist for
USA Today and a commentator for
ABC News who
wrote about Manning's history in
2003 and
again this week. She joins me
tonight from
Atlanta.
So, Christine, is this now
coming up again
because just a couple of weeks
ago, there
were 100 hungry reporters
covering the Super
Bowl, putting Peyton Manning and
everybody
else under the microscope?
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, USA Today:
It's a fascinating
story, Hari.
And it really, I think, speaks
to the power
of social media. Of course, back
in 2003,
when I wrote about this, and USA
Today did
cover this story, there was no
Twitter, there
was no Facebook. And, literally,
an ember
becomes a wildfire in a matter
of a couple
hours on a Saturday afternoon.
That's what
happened with this story.
There certainly is the component
of the Cam
Newton story and then the
backlash about people
criticizing him. Now The New
York Daily News
dredges up and looks at the news
about Peyton
Manning, and here we are again,
a 20-year-old
story now back in the news, a
fascinating
journalistic look and how things
can happen
in our social media world, and
also, I think,
a look at a powerful, very
popular family,
the first family of football,
the Mannings,
and how they have perhaps
engineered news
over the years, and now a story
that they
cannot control.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The Cam Newton
story was
about the allegation that he
stole a laptop
years and years ago, right?
But, besides the social media
effect, did
this first family of football
try to suppress
this or smear the person who
made these allegations?
What was the history? And why is
that so important
now?
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Not with me.
I never had
any contact with the Manning
family, never
heard from them.
And, of course, if I had heard
from anyone
saying, don't write this, I
would have redoubled
my efforts as a journalist to
work on the
story and write it. That would
be the way
I was trained, and that's my
sense of journalism.
But I understand, in one case,
ESPN Radio
host Paul Finebaum told me
yesterday on the
record that he received phone
calls from Archie
Manning, or at least one phone
call, when
he was a columnist in
Birmingham, Alabama.
When Archie Manning, this great
star from
the Southeastern Conference,
calls you, and
you're in Birmingham, Alabama,
and says, please
don't write the story back in
the '90s, and
it's the Manning family, Paul
Finebaum said
he's a little embarrassed now,
but he said
he didn't write it, because he
understood
that that was a big thing.
I think that's a big part of it.
And I also
think the fact is, you have got
a lot of small
towns in the Southeastern
Conference, around
the country. People love their
college football.
And I wish I could say that
journalism would
trump that, but that's not
always the case.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Right.
So, Peyton Manning has not
responded to this
most recent wave of accusations
or this resurfacing
of these accusations. Is there a
consequence
to this, because you turn on a
TV these days,
and he's selling just about
everything?
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Well, and in
one case,
UltraViolet, a women's rights
group, has called
on at least two of the sponsors
to say drop
him and cut ties -- business
ties.
I don't know. It's hard to -- I
think it's
important as journalists, Hari,
to say what
we know and say what we don't
know. I do not
know what the future holds for
Peyton Manning.
I certainly know this is not the
way he wanted
to exit the NFL, if, in fact,
he's retiring.
This is the last thing he
wanted...
HARI SREENIVASAN: Sure.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: ... because
his legacy
today, his reputation today is
more tarnished
than it has ever been.
But, for the future, I think
there is certainly
a chance he can rehabilitate
himself. But
if he's going to retire, he's
going to have
to meet the press, and he's
to answer some of these
questions.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's talk a
bit about the
Title IX investigation that was
happening
at the University of Tennessee.
I mentioned
it briefly. But that's a bigger
case than
just Peyton Manning.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Oh, it is,
yes.
Last summer, there were 124
schools that were
under investigation from the
Education Department
on issues of sexual harassment
and sexual
assault. Were they doing enough
to find these
things out and to deal with
them, 124 universities?
So, the University of Tennessee
is not alone.
And people might remember that I
think the
most famous one has been the
Florida State
story with Jameis Winston, the
Heisman Trophy
winner a couple of years ago.
So, this is a problem throughout
our country,
the fact that our universities
do not seem
to have a grasp on how to look
at sexual assault,
deal with it, adjudicate it. And
that's what
-- the Tennessee story, and
that's where they
have cited Peyton Manning in
this case.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Christine Brennan
from USA Today joining us from
Atlanta today,
thank you.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Thank you,
Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next, we turn to
our series
Brief But Spectacular, where we
talk with
interesting people about their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from playwright
and performer
Danai Gurira. Her latest play
"Eclipsed" opens
on Broadway next week. And you
may also recognize
her from her starring role in
AMC's "The Walking
Dead."
DANAI GURIRA,
Actress/Playwright: I want women
and girls of African descent and
of color
to be able to not have to keep
searching for
stories about themselves.
I couldn't find any monologues
and stories
and plays that I really felt I
could take
and work with. And I find much
connection
in Shaw and Ibsen and Chekhov,
but if you
are constantly, only dealing
with stories
that are not of the people that
you're from,
not from where you're from, not
from your
heritage, that can function as a
disadvantage.
I went to grad school because I
wanted to
learn the rules, so I would know
how to break
them. Breaking the rules is
saying, I'm breaking
in, OK? I'm breaking in your
very comfortable
little house over here, and I'm
going to take
a room.
I wrote a play called
"Eclipsed." It grapples
with the experience of five
different women
in the war zone of Liberia in
2003, three
women who have been abducted at
different
stages of their lives and become
the forced
"bush wives" -- quote, unquote
-- sex slaves
to a commanding officer.
It's an astounding cast. Lupita
Nyong'o is
in it, as well as Pascale
Armand, Akosua Busia,
Zainab Jah, also the wonderful
Saycon Sengbloh.
I grew up in Harare, Zimbabwe.
And I had a
pretty idyllic childhood. I felt
that I was
kind of this outspoken girl, I
was considered.
I was a girl who talked a lot
and didn't think
my voice had any less value than
anyone around
me. Apparently, that was
strange.
Moving here really did strike in
me the desire
to tell the African story on
African soil.
The stories about Africans
always somehow
miraculously had a Western
protagonist. And
I was, like, wow, do we not
merit our own
ability to tell our own stories?
So, I started to write plays
that literally
was like, if you come into this
theater, you
are going to sit down and you're
going to
spend two hours or so with an
African woman
and you're going to get to know
her. You are
going to see a full person, just
like you
see when you go watch all them
other things.
I often feel like a nutty
professor, like
I'm going to try this experiment
and see if
it works. My hypothesis is,
people in the
West can absorb African women
stories without
any shaken or stirred mixer. It
can come directly
from the source.
I create, so that you can see
women like this
shine and get to do their thang!
My name is Danai Gurira. And
this is my Brief
But Spectacular take on creating
complex stories
for unheard voices.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
other episodes
of our Brief But Spectacular
series on our
Facebook page. That's
Facebook.com/NewsHour.
On the "NewsHour" online: Three
new studies
released today dig deeper into
what makes
breast milk nutritious,
revealing the baby
has a key role to play. Special
sugars in
the milk and certain microbes in
the infant's
gut form a tag team that spur
healthy growth
in a child. You can read more
about these
studies on our home page,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
Tune in later tonight. On
"Charlie Rose,"
author Roger Angell looks at a
writer's life.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening with Mark Shields and
David Brooks.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.